about the only thing I can do in five
seconds is go from my desk to the fridge
and open it to stare blankly inside but
at the same time millions of
mind-blowing things are happening in
this short period see for yourself in
five seconds five hundred thousand
reactions occur in your body cells as
you follow my lead and go to the fridge
your heart will pump about 12 ounces of
blood giving your body a nice gush of
life fluid while this happens over 10
million new red blood cells are
generated in your body that's five
seconds mind you you and I will also
blink once as for breath you'll probably
take one and a half of those in the next
five seconds if you're thirty or older
every five seconds you lose about 2.5
nerve cells four weddings will take
place somewhere in the world every five
seconds and one more union is sealed
before another second passes 21 and a
half new lives will appear in five
seconds around the globe making it a
little more populated over 12 million
emails will be sent on the count of five
about 21 of them surely celebrating
somebody's birth when you pull that
fridge door 47 new websites will be
created and you could spend several
hours to find and take a look at them
all posts of strangers on Facebook will
receive 2.3 million likes in the same
period of time new post count on
Facebook will reach 200 5,000 posting
something takes more time than giving it
a life Twitter will receive 23 thousand
new tweets in 5 seconds I'll never have
time to read them an Instagram will
boast 3,200 newly uploaded photos and
videos within the same period people all
over the world will search stuff they
need on Google 15 million times in 5
seconds at the same time 2400 whatsapp
messages will be sent some of them
definitely spam but whatever there's no
competition to snapchat which will
generate over 350,000 videos in the next
5 seconds every 5 seconds folks across
the planet drink over 52,000 cans of
coke and don't regret it a single second
and to think of it only about 70 cups of
tea are consumed within the same amount
of time maybe because it's hot but at
the same time people somehow manage to
drink more than 250 cups of coffee
because you don't really care about heat
when you need that boost in any case
over 20,000 cans will be opened in five
seconds that includes coke as well but
also tuna peas and lots of other stuff
13 bananas will be I guess they're
pretty exotic after all 1750 pizzas will
be cooked across the globe mmm pizza
about 180 pounds of popcorn will be
eaten too in five seconds hmm popcorn
300 lipsticks will be manufactured when
you make it to the white chest of
goodies in your kitchen at the same time
over 200 tons of trash will be produced
worldwide stuff will be sold on amazon
worth almost $7,000 in five seconds and
I need half a year for that no surprise
here though since 360 people will visit
Amazon within that time on eBay for
comparison only 79 people will make a
purchase in 5 seconds 15 of those visits
will be made via mobile devices a bit
less than a million conversations will
be started on electronic messengers in
the world in 5 seconds and the average
person will earn only about 1/10 of a
cent in 5 seconds so unfair
in 4 seconds four airplanes will rise
into the air well another one will be a
bit late to make it within the fifth
second one airplane will be safely
landing within the next five seconds it
might make you feel better to know that
every five seconds people donate over
260 thousand dollars to charities all
over the world on a cosmic scale even
crazier stuff happens within the next 5
seconds the universe will expand by
another 46 miles 150 stars will explode
somewhere in the endless space but
20,000 new ones will take their place
the Sun will shoot over 5 million tons
of matter into space in just 5 seconds
the earth will turn one-and-a-half miles
around its axis at the equator and you
won't even notice it as for its movement
around the Sun
our planet will cover the distance of
over 93 miles in five seconds our whole
solar system rotates around the center
of our galaxy and in five seconds it
will make about 680 miles and I'm not
done yet the Milky Way and its
neighboring galaxies are hurrying
towards the Great Attractor somewhere
far away at the speed of three thousand
miles per five seconds a single humble
electron though will travel a whopping
six thousand eight hundred miles within
the next five seconds but a photon a
particle of light being the fastest in
the universe will cover the distance of
almost a million miles if you want to
know the average human only walks about
23 feet within the same amount of time
and even when we travel to space we
still crawl on a cosmic scale an
orbiting spacecraft covers just about 24
miles within five seconds falling is
easier than rising a coin will fall on
the ground from the top of a 160 foot
tall building in five seconds a little
scary statistic this one earthquake will
begin in the next five seconds somewhere
in the world and another one in ten more
over 21 million gallons of water will
rise up as vapor from the Earth's
reservoirs I don't mean to connect these
facts but the overall area of deserts on
the planet will expand by more than 10
acres in five seconds the earth will be
struck by lightning 500 times I don't
know how it hasn't exploded from all of
this heat yet the sound of thunder from
all of those will travel about 1 mile in
five seconds five seconds are enough for
a humble honeybee
to flap its wings thirteen hundred and
fifty times try doing that with your
arms maybe repeating after a hummingbird
will be easier it'll only beat its wings
a little over 300 times in the next five
seconds still now on a sadder note 170
trees will be cut down and rain for us
but there are still hundreds more being
planted fifteen thousand eight hundred
tons of water will wash down for the top
of Niagara Falls my only consolation is
that the fastest snail on earth will
only travel two and a half inches in
five seconds that's not even a tenth of
the distance I'll make we
a sloth will cover about one foot within
that time over 800 airplanes will be
crossing the skies in five seconds with
well over 200,000 people on board almost
5500 tons of oil will be used in
machinery and factories all over the
world within the next five seconds as we
speak about 25,000 tons of ice will melt
in Antarctica
enough to fill thousands of freezers 115
electronic taxi orders will be received
in the following five seconds and the
same number of drivers will start
earning money if you read this text
instead of listening to it you'll be
able to read up to 75 words in five
seconds but you'll have to deal with my
speed within the next five seconds over
thirty three hours worth of videos will
appear on YouTube that's enough to fill
you for a lifetime in less than an hour
yet people somehow managed to watch
almost six thousand five hundred hours
of streamed video on Netflix go figure
about ten thousand calls will be made
via Skype in five seconds in less than a
half dozen seconds half a Wikipedia
article will be written somewhere in the
world I bet the rest of it is formatting
to the rules about 1200 songs will be
downloaded from itunes in five seconds
who needs so many anyway 117 compact
discs will be readied at movie rentals
so many people still use them when and
a-half Kindle e-readers will be sold to
book lovers around the world in five
seconds
in some places at the planet 226 brand
new smartphones will find their owners
how sweet three of those devices will
almost certainly be iphones by the way
on that note eight BlackBerry devices
will also go into that cap and the
eternal Beauty a Barbie doll will be
sold twice in five seconds in just five
measly seconds fifty nine computers will
be sold to their proud owners nineteen
computers will become infected with some
kind of malware at the same time when
Xbox console will be sold to somebody
will have a good playtime in the next
five seconds over 300 USB devices will
be bought that includes anything that is
connected to a computer in five seconds
more than three tons of electronic waste
will be generated
more than 200 ink cartridges will be
sold as well hey I thought everyone use
laser printers today a full dozen cars
will drive away with new owners behind
their wheels in five seconds 12 people
will move to a new home
probably hauling stuff in their
brand-new cars a little less than a
thousand packages will be delivered by
UPS in the next five seconds the entire
human population of Earth will consume
about 1 million pounds of food in 5
seconds about half a million pounds of
good food will also go to trash such a
waste
and finally and most importantly in five
seconds you can count to five yeah
[Music]